Hobby electronics terms: Some extras while talking about Arduinos and the like

* **Button Contact Bounce:** This refers the effect of two metal surfaces coming into contact with one another. For a very small multi-millisecond period the two surfaces bounce off each other. A microcontroller can detect this and report it as on off events which is often times not the desired result. Given this is a common problem when setting up a button normally effort is taken to "debounce" the button either in software or hardware.
* **Arduino / Microcontroller:** Like people call tissues Kleenexes, people have also taken to calling microcontrollers Arduinos. Make no mistake however, Arduino is a brand of microcontroller development boards gear towards hobbyist makers. Microcontrollers are chips that run single purpose flashable firmware. Normally this code just runs in an continuous event loop prioritizing the nature of real time hardware changes over the benefits of running multi-application operating systems like Windows, Linux, or OSX
* **PCB or Printed Circuit Board:** this is a board that electronics can be surface or through hole mounted to. The board contains the traces that would represented by jumper wires in a hobby project
* **Raspberry Pi / SOC (System On a Chip):** includes many of the discrete microcontroller components that would historically be assemble separately on a PCB. Raspberry Pis and smartphones are mainly driven by a SOCs. Raspberry Pi s represent much more capability and flexibility than an Arduino at a similar price and form factor. A big difference beyond capability to consider between and Arduino and a Raspberry Pi is complexity and power consumption. Both of which a Raspberry Pi has more of
* **Adafruit/Sparkfun:** These are two of the leading vendors of hobby components and hobbyist learning support. Both have online resources that is helpful in furthering an understanding of hobby electronics
* **Serial / i2c / SPI / CAN Bus:** These are machine to machine communication protocols each has different features and benefits
* **Circuit Python / Micro Python:** These two terms are related to each other but not the same. The later is the core effort to compile python onto microcontrollers. The former is an effort lead by Adafruit to make python on microcontrollers accessible to hobbyist that utilizes Micro Python
