### This reference is meant to help learners get acquainted with language used in programing


 * **Comments:** Human language that is added to code for human people to understand it. Comments are ignored by the computer. In Python single line comments are denoted with the # symbol other languages use //. There is also separate notation for multi-line comments. What constitutes as good comments is an art form that programmers incessantly argue about

* **Variable/properties/constants:** Variables are similar to the proverbial X used in arithmetic. Variables are slightly more complex in programing in the fact that they can store “mutable” or changeable data. Variables can be descriptively named by the programmer. They work like this in python: X = 99. Unlike arithmetic you probably want to name X something more helpful like “root_beers_on_the_wall”. Immutable data like PI = 3.1415926 is called a constant. The act of creating a variable is referred to as instantiation. The type of data a variable can or should hold is an important consideration. Suffice it to say having dog = “Jake” and walks = 5 and expecting a favorable result from dog + walks might be expecting a little much, because they are two different data types. A property is a variable that is nested/scoped in a object

* **Scope:** Some programing languages use {} or () to denote scope, python uses indentation (4 spaces). Scope is important in indicating when and where something happens. In the context of functions it indicates what code belongs to that function. In the case of variables it can indicate where the variable can be used in the code, how it is physically located in physical working memory, and cleaned up after on a computer. This is a subtle concept that makes more sense with experience and the exact syntax varies greatly depending on the language. The important thing to remember as a beginner is, limit scope as much a makes sense to keep code clean and organized. It can be a bit of an art form which is why programmers argue about it incessantly

* **Function/Method:** These are typically programmer named groups of instructions that becomes a procedure that can be called when desired. Functions help abstract and group details into higher level concepts. One of the greatest utilities to a function is the ability to repeat series of instructions more than once in code by calling one name. In fact functions can even call themselves, this is called recursion. Recursion can be used to create repetitive behavior or break your program, choose wisely. Methods are functions that are nested/scoped within objects
Parameters and returns: functions can input data and return data. A parameter is a variable that can be passed to a function. There can be multiple parameters for any given function and they are normally positional in nature. The programmer decides this when the function is defined

* **Class/Object:** This is a repeatable data structure that combines functions and variables into properties and methods. A class is a template for an object. An allegorical example of an object is dog class the defines that dogs have 2 ears 4 legs and goes bark. This class could be the template for many unique dog “objects” like Fido and Old Yeller. Objects provides ways to reuse code and organize code into reasonable scopes  
Constructors: This describes a method that is used to create a unique object

* **Conditional Statements:** if, for, while. These are commands that check for the truth of the statement that follows them. The flow of the code is directed into the scope of the conditions when they resolved to as true. If is a single use condition, and for and while have check statements that allow for the condition to be checked repetitively
Operators: Statements that can be resolved to true. Comparisons generally available are greater than, less than, equal to, not, or any combination of those. Example: 5 greater than or equal to 2 resolves to true

* **Libraries:** Are programing resources that have already abstracted a lower level concept into a higher level one that is more readily understandable. Also known as code someone else wrote
Blocking Operations: A part of an execution cycle that blocks other operations from happening. Normally the term blocking is used in the context of an event loop where the look is expected to iterate over a number of conditions in short order. Like if you need to make an important appointment but get too distracted eating pie to check what time it is

* **Asynchronous vs Synchronous:** These distinctions can be confusing if thought about too hard. The basic idea sync is one after another and async is out of order. Sync code is more easy to write than async, but async is more conducive to multitasking

* **Event Loop:** This is a loop that includes functions that check when a task needs to occur
Data Type/Static vs Dynamic Typing: A data type decides the shape and size of data. A 5*5*5 box fits 125 cubic units of whatever. Similarly a byte sometimes consist of 8 bits and a bit is always a truth or a false (1 or 0, on or off). Many languages require that variables be instantiated as a specific data type so that the computer understands the programmer’s absolute intention this is called “Static typing”. Other languages take the interpretation of the shape of the data into their own hands, this is dynamic typing

* **Arrays, list, tuples, dictionaries, databases:** The example of 800 boxes is an arrangement of data. That arrangement could be called many things like an array or database. Arrangements of data come in many shapes and sizes just like data types. The difference is that an arrangement of data normally represents a collection of many signal units of data. What varies is the method the computer uses to quantify the location of that data. Which is why there are many way to store collections of data. Hence the array of names

* **Pointers:** This is what the computer translates the name of a variable or function into. Say there was a warehouse of 800 boxes and box 455 had some important stuff in it, one would ask for box 455 as opposed to asking for important stuff. 455 is the pointer. A pointer is the data that indicates the location of the data not the data itself. One trip up with pointers is assuming the computer is magic, it’s more easy to compare to a more real life. If I wanted someone to send me a nice gift I would give them my address instead of sending them my house. A pointer is like an address in that way. Pointers sometimes have confusing syntax depending on the language and data type or structure they point to. People hate them for this
